Spring MVC as per Spring 3.0 Docs

Spring Different HandlerMapping
------------------------------

1. AbstractControllerUrlHandlerMapping
2. AbstractDetectingUrlHandlerMapping
3. AbstractHandlerMapping
4. AbstractMapBasedHandlerMapping
5. AbstractUrlHandlerMapping
6. BeanNameUrlHandlerMapping
7. ControllerBeanNameHandlerMapping
8. ControllerClassNameHandlerMapping
9. DefaultAnnotationHandlerMapping
10. HandlerMapping
11. ParameterHandlerMapping
12. RequestMappingHandlerMapping
13. RequestMappingInfoHandlerMapping
14. SimpleUrlHandlerMapping

Spring Different Controllers
----------------------------

 1. AbstractCommandController
 2. AbstractController
 3. AbstractFormController
 4. AbstractUrlViewController
 5. AbstractWizardFormController
 6. BaseCommandController
 7. CancellableFormController
 8. ComponentControllerSupport
 9. Controller
 10. EventAwareController
 11. MultiActionController
 12. ParameterizableViewController
 13. PortletModeNameViewController
 14. PortletWrappingController
 15. ResourceAwareController
 16. ServletForwardingController
 17. ServletWrappingController
 18. SimpleControllerHandlerAdapter
 19. SimpleFormController
 20. UrlFilenameViewController
 
Spring Different ViewResolvers
--------------------------------
 
In Spring MVC, view resolvers enable you to render models in a browser without tying you to a specific view technology like JSP, Velocity, XML…etc.

There are two interfaces that are important to the way Spring handles views are ViewResolver and View. The ViewResolver provides a mapping between view names and actual views. The View interface addresses the preparation of the request and hands the request over to one of the view technologies.

Below are the important viewresolvers provided by spring framework:

1. AbstractCachingViewResolver : Abstract view resolver that caches views. Often views need preparation before they can be used; extending this view resolver provides caching.
2. XmlViewResolver : Implementation of ViewResolver that accepts a configuration file written in XML with the same DTD as Spring’s XML bean factories. The default configuration file is /WEB-INF/views.xml.
3. ResourceBundleViewResolver : Implementation of ViewResolver that uses bean definitions in a ResourceBundle, specified by the bundle base name. Typically you define the bundle in a properties file, located in the classpath. The default file name is views.properties.
4. UrlBasedViewResolver : Simple implementation of the ViewResolver interface that effects the direct resolution of logical view names to URLs, without an explicit mapping definition. This is appropriate if your logical names match the names of your view resources in a straightforward manner, without the need for arbitrary mappings.
5. InternalResourceViewResolver :  Convenient subclass of UrlBasedViewResolver that supports InternalResourceView (in effect, Servlets and JSPs) and subclasses such as JstlView and TilesView. You can specify the view class for all views generated by this resolver by using setViewClass(..).
6. VelocityViewResolver/FreeMarkerViewResolver : Convenient subclass of UrlBasedViewResolver that supports VelocityView (in effect, Velocity templates) or FreeMarkerView ,respectively, and custom subclasses of them.
7. ContentNegotiatingViewResolver : Implementation of the ViewResolver interface that resolves a view based on the request file name or Accept header.

